I'm trying to make the effort to do
vegan activism more often than not right
I'm trying to do my part by spreading
the word at my school at my university
all that stuff and I know it's not
enough
like not nearly enough as what I could
normally do but again things come into
play like supporting my family
transportation these sorts of things
right like I'm not going out and trying
to buy the fanciest piece of our article
of clothing right like I take my money
and I'm gonna spend it accordingly
it goes down to a point where I deny I
deny buying my family animal products
when they want to eat it even though
it's their money I'm gonna be like no if
if you want me to go buy it you go drive
to the store I know it's five minutes
away I could usually do it you're still
going to get it but I want them to go
through that struggle now no no way I
just got over there I'm six foot three
when I go grocery shopping people
sometimes ask me to take things down off
the top shelf for them I'm self-effacing
you butter so I say oh no I couldn't
possibly and they say what do you what
do you mean you're tall you can reach it
I you know it's on the top shelf no no
no no it's not that I'm short I'm vegan
so I do kind of make a joke of it but I
joke is real I don't do it I don't get
it up oh man that's the nicest way of
being an [ __ ] I have to admit the
nicest thing is Josie
[Music]
I've lettuce yen so you bring up two
names in particular about vegan
youtubers and I understand that they're
on the smaller scale of things you bring
up Angie and Ryan and you bring up on
natural vegan now here's the deal with
what I see with them right like again I
take no offence because I think that
it's important that we learn from all
aspects although we might disagree on
some points it's always nice to hear the
other side but the question that gets
raised with these particular youtubers
and there's many like them right you you
see them all the time and honestly it's
kind of cringy because you see them do
these what I eat in a day videos they
play the same music they're eating the
same foods and they're just basically
advocating their lifestyle which is fine
there's no harm in that you have every
right to do so but as a vegan like the
question that I wanted to ask is is
being vegan enough right like we look at
it as a social political philosophical
movement to end all of animal
exploitation and cruelty and I know that
we're doing our part by not eating
animals or their you know their
byproducts like milk and cheese and
whatnot but is that enough or should we
be taking more of a stance so you see in
phrasing the question you hurt people
the answer no of course of course is not
enough and we would say the same about
gay rights this is a great case for gay
rights
is it enough to just be gay is it enough
to live in Saudi Arabia right now and
just be gay is it enough let's be blunt
to just suck dick it's not enough it's
never gonna be enough to just suck dick
it's never gonna be enough and we can
all we could all pat ourselves on the
back and feel like heroes for sucking
each other's dicks and at some point you
got to say no you know what we actually
need a political movement we actually
need some kind of you know whether it's
through lobbying government or protest
we have to get organized right
ultimately this is a political and
democratic struggle and of course in
Saudi Arabia it's also a religious
struggle even here in Canada it was a
religious struggle to some extent it was
a struggle that took place within the
Anglican Church and Catholic Church but
I mean those those churches aren't that
powerful in Canada compared to a you
know majority Muslim countries
the role of religion there but
regardless it's still a religious
struggle in Israel too by the way
just to just to give fair recognition
that it's not it's not really easy gay
rights in Israel um so no your own
consumption your own sex life your own
private left's though it's never good
enough now the only caveat I put is it
not everybody can do it
yeah I've all my life I've known
disabled people there sorry me I'm not
gonna say I have a lot of disabled
friends at the moment different times of
my life I've had friends who were
disabled to different extents there are
people who can't really do anything just
because they're physically disabled
there are people who can't really do
anything to do extreme poverty my own
economic situation is pretty dire
I'm very limited in what I can do bime
economic situation I can't just fly to
London and attend a conference and
London England or something these are
every everything I do is a big decision
financially but the question is and this
is my way of posing it if not you then
who if and you right it can't be
everyone I'm you know I say this about
different kinds of political and social
movements you know why you still learn
Korean a giveaway and want to bring back
those languages I used to do
humanitarian work in Cambodia not
everybody can do humanitarian work in
Cambodia not everybody can study Korean
ejoyed notes right but somebody has to
and the question is if not you then who
and it gets pretty surreal when you're
looking at someone who's who's
ostensibly devoted their lives to the
vegan movement ostensibly like Angie and
Ryan from happy LT vegan like a natural
vegan also known as Swayze when you look
at somebody like that and they're not
doing it well if not you then who you're
a full time vegan activist you're being
paid I don't know Mike the vegan anyone
what are you doing with this money and
leisure and you know platform and
connections and network and power you
have some degree of you know money power
and respect if not you then who
so that's when it gets really weird and
you know there are there are some people
who I think are trying to do everything
they can I I'm not you know cynical
about Earthling ad I think he probably
is gonna adapt and find new ways to be a
vegan activist I think he'll get bored
of having the same conversation on the
sidewalk again it
I think people will go on to either
professionalize or specialize or or or
do something better but yeah so the but
the direct answer question is no it's
never just enough to be vegan it can't
possibly be we all know that too just as
it's different in Saudi Arabia and in
Canada there is a cultural and political
question of context what you can do not
you as an abstract but you if you're an
architect if you're a musician if you're
unemployed they're different if you're
disabled sure there are constraints but
then finally within the talent pool we
got the limited talent pool of people
who are committed vegans if not you then
who
Adventist yen and I have one vegan
friend she wants to do who hill activism
and she thinks she's gonna start when
she's 55 because she says look I have so
many decades raising my kids and then I
have to do this then after that but she
predicts you'll have enough money and
leisure free time and free money to
really do activism when she's in her 50s
yeah